# Contribution of parasite and host genotype to immunopathology of schistosome infections
Abstract
Background: The role of pathogen genotype in determining disease severity and immunopathology has been studied intensively in microbial pathogens including bacteria, fungi, protozoa, and viruses, but is poorly understood in parasitic helminths. The medically important blood fluke Schistosoma mansoni is an excellent model system to study the impact of helminth genetic variation on immunopathology. Our laboratory has demonstrated that laboratory schistosome populations differ in sporocyst growth and cercarial production in the intermediate snail host and worm establishment and fecundity in the vertebrate host. Here, we (i) investigate the hypothesis that schistosome genotype plays a significant role in immunopathology and related parasite life history traits in the vertebrate mouse host and (ii) quantify the relative impact of parasite and host genetics on infection outcomes.
Methods: We infected BALB/c and C57BL/6 mice with four different laboratory schistosome populations from Africa and the Americas. We quantified disease progression in the vertebrate host by measuring body weight and complete blood count (CBC) with differential over an infection period of 12 weeks. On sacrifice, we assessed parasitological (egg and worm counts, fecundity), immunopathological (organ measurements and histopathology), and immunological (CBC with differential and cytokine profiles) characteristics to determine the impact of parasite and host genetics. 
Results: We found significant variation between parasite populations in worm numbers, fecundity, liver and intestine egg counts, liver and spleen weight and fibrotic area, but not in granuloma size. Variation in organ weight was explained both by egg burden and by intrinsic parasite factors independent of egg burden. We found significant variation between infected mouse lines in cytokines (IFN-γ, TNF-α), eosinophil, lymphocyte, and monocyte counts. 
Conclusions: This study showed that both parasite and host genotype impact the outcome of infection. While host genotype explains most of the variation in immunological traits, parasite genotype explains most of the variation in parasitological traits, and both host and parasite genotype impact immunopathology outcomes.

KEY WORDS: host-parasite interaction, immunopathogenesis, Schistosoma mansoni, BALB/c mouse, C57BL/6 mouse.

## Notes
